---

layout: post
title: "Murmur on December 31 2021"
date:   2021-12-31
tags: [呕吐稿]
comments: true
author: Yifan



### New Year Resolution

1) solo-podcasting and artistic review

2) regular-exercising routines 

3) translate with regular output

   ### Morning and evening

   It is incredibly important to set a good evening and morning routines. If I may, I shall call it the only important things in my life, as it sticks my life altogether. It defines the pace, sets the tone, builds the habits and much more. Persistence or other characters are not the most useful, at least their importance has been exaggerated through story-telling. Habits and micro-habits that push everyday forward  matter more. What are the ideal evening and morning routines?

   The key of my evening routine is bed time, which is before 11pm, coming with a phone-free time an hour before bed time. The key to morning routines is to wake up early and to make most of the morning time. In all, an hour before bed time and an hour after wake-up time. The two-hour is itself a cycle split into two parts but functional as a whole. The evening section prepares for morning section, while the morning section is fully devoted to fleet writing and brain vomit. Those two section have to serve the personal and original production. Surely, morning section often comes more than one hours, I may arrange other hours for work-related issues.

   I have realized that I am a morning person really early. I am extremely productive and focus in the morning, especially without the interruption of technology. I also strongly feel the curve and stretch of my energy. One important fact is that, if nothing is arranged, I do not necessarily go through relaxation and reboot. I am happy with living my life, being focus, being fascinated, being connected.

   ### Reading

   Reading is hard, as always. I think my readings should be more systematic and thematic. I have a lot of questions of being who I am and why I am here. Just like testing my theories in real life, cruel, straightforward and critical. The society has been profoundly divided and I, on the side of minority, strive to maintain my ego. Reading is a resistance in its most personal form. I am inspired by people like Gould who was perceived to be the minority at his time and in fact timeless. It is much more interesting communicating to them than wasting time on social media. I have not had clear and profound philosophy of my life. Sadly, I did not read enough as a child, especially those big chunks. I really should tackle those meta-questions first, as I am still young and curious to general things.